README.md, before:

# Mullvad Browser

The Mullvad Browser is a privacy-focused web browser developed in a collaboration between [Mullvad VPN](https://mullvad.net) and the [Tor Project](https://www.torproject.org). It’s designed to minimize tracking and fingerprinting. You could say it’s a Tor Browser to use without the Tor Network. Instead, you can use it with a trustworthy VPN. The idea is to provide one more alternative – beside the Tor Network – to browse the internet with more privacy. To get as many people as possible to fight the big data gathering of today. To free the internet from mass surveillance.

[Read more](https://mullvad.net/browser)

## Downloads

You can visit [our download page](https://mullvad.net/download/browser) to get the latest stable release.

### Available platforms

- Linux (64 bit only)
- Windows 10 or later (64 bit only)
- macOS 11 or later

## I have some feedback / I encountered a bug

Please open an issue in this repository or send an email to [support@mullvad.net](mailto:support@mullvad.net).

## Source Code

The Source Code can be obtained from separate branches. This `main` branch only contains this Readme.

Here's the corresponding version / branches:

- Mullvad Browser 12.0.4 / `mullvad-browser-102.9.0esr-12.0-2`

The browser code is also available directly in the [Tor Project Gitlab](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/applications/mullvad-browser/).

## Build instructions

Follow the instructions from the Tor Browser [building guide](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/applications/team/-/wikis/Development-Information/Tor-Browser/Building).

## License

It is licensed under the [Mozilla Public License V2](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/MPL/2.0/)

Commit message:

Add guide to verify the downloads

README.md, after:

# Mullvad Browser

The Mullvad Browser is a privacy-focused web browser developed in a collaboration between [Mullvad VPN](https://mullvad.net) and the [Tor Project](https://www.torproject.org). It’s designed to minimize tracking and fingerprinting. You could say it’s a Tor Browser to use without the Tor Network. Instead, you can use it with a trustworthy VPN. The idea is to provide one more alternative – beside the Tor Network – to browse the internet with more privacy. To get as many people as possible to fight the big data gathering of today. To free the internet from mass surveillance.

[Read more](https://mullvad.net/browser)

## Downloads

You can visit [our download page](https://mullvad.net/download/browser) to get the latest stable release.

### Available platforms

- Linux (64 bit only)
- Windows 10 or later (64 bit only)
- macOS 11 or later

### Verifying the download

Mullvad Browser is signed by the Tor Browser Developers.

To verify your download, [follow our guide](https://mullvad.net/en/help/verifying-mullvad-browser-signature/).

## I have some feedback / I encountered a bug

Please open an issue in this repository or send an email to [support@mullvad.net](mailto:support@mullvad.net).

## Source Code

The Source Code can be obtained from separate branches. This `main` branch only contains this Readme.

Here's the corresponding version / branches:

- Mullvad Browser 12.0.4 / `mullvad-browser-102.9.0esr-12.0-2`

The browser code is also available directly in the [Tor Project Gitlab](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/applications/mullvad-browser/).

## Build instructions

Follow the instructions from the Tor Browser [building guide](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/applications/team/-/wikis/Development-Information/Tor-Browser/Building).

## License

It is licensed under the [Mozilla Public License V2](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/MPL/2.0/)
